Deletion request approval and API update (#5680)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/manage/deletion-requests.md

:::note
- During the data deletion process, existing messages may temporarily appear duplicated for a few seconds. These duplicated messages will automatically disappear once the data deletion is complete.
- Pinned queries may continue to display data identified for deletion for up to 24 hours from the initial run, prior to the data deletion request approval.

> - Data deletion request will be automatically canceled after 30 days if no action is taken.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Data deletion requests are automatically canceled after 30 days if no action is taken.
```

> - Data deletion request will be automatically cancelled after 30 days if no action is taken.

Reviewer: (U.S. spelling)

```suggestion
- Data deletion request will be automatically canceled after 30 days if no action is taken.
```

   :::
1. Select the **Time Range** when the data was ingested.
1. When you're done, click **Save**.

> 1. Your request will go to your [Administrator for review and approval](#approve-the-deletion-request). You can check on your request in the **Status** column. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/get-started-search/deletion-request-status.png')} alt="deletion request status" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="400"/>

Author: ```suggestion
1. Your request will be notified via email to the [users with approval access](#approve-the-deletion-request). You can check on your request in the **Status** column. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/get-started-search/deletion-request-status.png')} alt="deletion request status" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="400"/>
```

   :::
1. Select the **Time Range** when the data was ingested.
1. When you're done, click **Save**.

> 1. An email about your request will be sent to the [users with approval access](#approve-the-deletion-request). You can check on your request in the **Status** column. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/get-started-search/deletion-request-status.png')} alt="deletion request status" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="400"/>

Author: ```suggestion
1. An email about your request will be sent to 50 most recently active approval users with [approval access](#approve-the-deletion-request). You can check on your request in the **Status** column. 
:::note
If you require an approval apart from this 50 users, you can forward the deletion request approval email to the required users. 
:::
<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/get-started-search/deletion-request-status.png')} alt="deletion request status" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="400"/>
```

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/get-started-search/deletion-request-cancel.png')} alt="screenshot showing how to cancel a deletion request" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800"/>

## Approve the deletion request

:::note

> - Ensure you have the **Administrator** access with **Review Deletion Requests** capability. By default, **Manage Deletion Requests** and **View Deletion Requests** capabilities will be added if you have the **Review Deletion Requests** capability.

Reviewer 2: The person needs not be Administrator. Any user with `Review Deletion Requests` capability can approve or reject the request

- Only **Administrator** will have the ability to view the **Approve** and **Reject** buttons.
:::

> Once the deletion request is created, it will be notified to your **Administrator** for approval. To approve or reject the request, follow the steps below:

Author: ```suggestion
Once the deletion request is created, it will be notified to the users with approval access. To approve or reject the request, follow the steps below:
```

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/get-started-search/deletion-request-cancel.png')} alt="screenshot showing how to cancel a deletion request" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800"/>

## Approve the deletion request

:::note

> - To approve or reject a request, ensure you have the **Review Deletion Requests** capability. By default, **Manage Deletion Requests** and **View Deletion Requests** capabilities will be added if you have the **Review Deletion Requests** capability.

Reviewer 3: @JV0812, it looks like you need to add the new roles to the [Role Capabilities](https://help.sumologic.com/docs/manage/users-roles/roles/role-capabilities/) article:
<img width="347" height="695" alt="Screenshot 2025-09-02 at 9 16 07 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8a640e38-d1f2-48ff-9031-e10bb77983e0" />

> - To approve or reject a request, ensure you have the **Review Deletion Requests** capability. By default, **Manage Deletion Requests** and **View Deletion Requests** capabilities will be added if you have the **Review Deletion Requests** capability.

Author: @jpipkin1 Since this is a Beta feature, we have not added in Role capability doc as of now.

:::

> Once the deletion request is created, it will be notified to the users who has the approval access. To approve or reject the request, follow the steps below:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once the deletion request is created, a notification will be sent to the users who have approval access. To approve or reject the request, follow the steps below:
```

> 1. [**Classic UI**](/docs/get-started/sumo-logic-ui-classic). Go to **Manage Data > Logs > Deletion Requests**.<br/>[**New UI**](/docs/get-started/sumo-logic-ui). In the Sumo Logic main menu select **Data Management**,  and then under **Logs** select Deletion Requests**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [**Classic UI**](/docs/get-started/sumo-logic-ui-classic). Go to **Manage Data > Logs > Deletion Requests**.<br/>[**New UI**](/docs/get-started/sumo-logic-ui). In the Sumo Logic main menu select **Data Management**, and then under **Logs** select **Deletion Requests**. 
```

1. Filter for the status with **Pending review**. <img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/get-started-search/pending-requests.png')} alt="filter for pending deletion requests" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="800"/>

> 1. Click on the deletion request to review the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click the deletion request to review it.
```

1. **Approve** or **Reject** the request based on your requirement.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/get-started-search/approve-reject-deletion-request.png')} alt="Approve/Reject deletion requests side panel" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="400"/>
    - **Approve**. Enter **Delete** in the **Approve Deletion Request** pop-up to permanently delete the data, and click the **Approve Request** button. <br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/get-started-search/approve-deletion-request.png')} alt="Approve deletion requests pop-up" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="400"/>

>     - **Reject**. Enter the reason for rejection in the **Reject Deletion Request** pop-up to help the requester understand the rejection issue to take necessary actions, and click the **Reject Request** button.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/get-started-search/reject-deletion-request.png')} alt="Reject deletion requests pop-up" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="400"/>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - **Reject**. Enter the reason for rejection in the **Reject Deletion Request** pop-up to help the requester understand the rejection issue and to take necessary actions, and click the **Reject Request** button.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/get-started-search/reject-deletion-request.png')} alt="Reject deletion requests pop-up" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="400"/>
```

>     - **Reject**. Enter the reason for rejection in the **Reject Deletion Request** pop-up to help the requester understand the rejection issue and to take necessary actions, and click the **Reject Request** button.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/get-started-search/reject-deletion-request.png')} alt="Reject deletion requests pop-up" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="400"/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Reject**. Enter the reason for rejection in the **Reject Deletion Request** pop-up to help the requester understand the reason for rejection and take any necessary actions, and click the **Reject Request** button.<br/><img src={useBaseUrl('img/search/get-started-search/reject-deletion-request.png')} alt="Reject deletion requests pop-up" style={{border: '1px solid gray'}} width="400"/>
```
